NEWSREEL NARRATOR:
Now in the News
on Griffin Rock,
brought to you by the makers
of Luskey's Hair Tonic.
A full head of hair
for your full-time man.
Today, a time capsule goes
into the ground,
filled with items
representing the people
of this Maine island
community.
Local citizens
and scientists
are all on hand
for the ceremony.
And there's
Dr. Elma Hendrickson,
who spearheaded the effort.
This time capsule will not
see the light of day again
until it's reopened
in 75 years.
Until then, Horace Burns
will stand guard,
and we'll see you
in the news.
FRANKIE:
And from the old newsreel,
we'll dissolve
to our video.
We are so getting an A
on this project.
Okay, Cody. Action!
Seventy-five years
have come and gone.
Tomorrow, Griffin Rock will dig
up that time capsule, and--
What's inside of it?
FRANKIE: Cut!
Blades, you Bots can't be seen
talking on camera, remember?
Oh. Right. Sorry.
But I can't stand
the suspense.
And action.
( clears throat )
There is no record
of what items
were put into the capsule.
But seeing what was meaningful
back then
will help us understand how much
Griffin Rock has changed.
Changed? Pfft. How long have
we been here?
And they're still not ready
to accept the idea of aliens,
much less embrace us.
I'm ready to embrace
everyone right now.
Come on, hug up!
Don't even.
FRANKIE:
Ugh. Okay, cut.
Cody, maybe we should get
some comments
from people around town.
Good idea.
My Dad said he'd help.
( dials phone )
Hey, Dad,
can we get
that interview now?
CHIEF:
Not quite yet, son.
I'm diamond shopping
with Doc,
direct from the factory.
Doc, are there diamonds
even left in this old mine?
If there are, my gemstone
detector will find them.
Seems like choosing
an engagement ring
shouldn't be this hard.
I want to create something
special for Anna.
She deserves nothing less.
A question about the exchange
of marriage rings.
Are they perhaps symbolic
of handcuffs,
designed to prevent
your spouse from escaping?
( chuckles ):
No, Chase.
The rings signify a bond
between two people.
Marriage changes
everything.
It's like the ground suddenly
shifting underneath your--
( all scream )
( siren blares )
♪ A routine patrol
With four Bots in stasis ♪
♪ Years later awoke
In the strangest of places ♪
♪ Earth was their home now
And in addition ♪
♪ Optimus Prime
Gave them this mission ♪
♪  Learn from the humans
Serve and protect ♪
♪ Live in their world
Earn their respect ♪
♪ A family of heroes
Will be your allies ♪
♪ To others remain
Robots in disguise ♪
♪ Rescue Bots
Roll to the rescue ♪
♪ Humans in need
Heroes indeed ♪
♪ Rescue Bots
Roll to the rescue ♪
♪ Rescue Bots ♪
♪ With Cody to guide them
And show them the way ♪
♪ Rescue Bots
Will be saving the day ♪
Roll to the rescue ♪
♪ Rescue Bots ♪
( siren blares )
( screaming )
( both grunt )
( Chase thuds )
Chase, are you all right?
CHASE:
Yes, sir.
You may release the beam,
and I will catch you both.
I find myself having
a little trouble letting go.
I don't think
you'll have to.
( both scream )
( grunts )
Whew.
Thanks, partner.
What do you say we end this
shopping trip for the day, huh?
DOC GREENE:
Not yet.
Looks like a blue light special.
A little large
for Anna's hand,
but I think she'll like it.
Of course she will.
( device beeps )
Another diamond?
It appears to be a rare form
of Reactaline.
Is that a gemstone?
Yes, basically.
With a few metals thrown in.
Hmm.
Veins of Reactaline
apparently run
under the entire island.
I've never even
heard of it.
I've only encountered
one other specimen
of this caliber.
in an ancient statue
displayed in our museum.
I've always wanted
to experiment on it,
but it's much
too valuable.
Say no more, Doc.
Chase, dig her up,
and then get us out of here.
Right away, sir.
WOMAN 1:
Where's Chief Burns?
WOMAN 2:
Where is Chief Burns?
( crowd shouting indistinctly )
( barks )
HUXLEY:
An unruly crowd.
A family taking refuge.
And many, many questions.
I'm Huxley Prescott,
and tomorrow is official
Dig up an Old Time Capsule
and Bury a New One Day.
And people want to know
what will be going inside
the new capsule.
And why does Chief Burns
get to decide?
( people shouting )
WOMAN: Put this inside.
MAN: Oh, chief, right here!
Wonderful.
Just leave your items
outside, everyone.
I'll review them later.
How long has this craziness
been going on?
Hours.
Frankie and I tried
interviewing everyone
about the old time capsule,
but all they care about
is what's going
into the new one.
CHIEF:
I guess it's because
people want
to be remembered.
What we leave behind
does say a lot about us.
What's everyone
so excited about?
There's stuff in my cab
older than 75 years.
That makes us all
time capsules.
Whoa.
It'll be interesting
to see
what people in the past thought
was important enough to bury.
Probably not so different
from what's important today.
Things that remind them
of family, friends,
hope for the future.
At least my family isn't
caught up in all this hysteria.
Exactly, Dad. Just forget
about the people outside.
Because my helmet really needs
to go in the capsule for sure.
Dad, as your only daughter,
I think this should go in.
( toy squeaks )
So please don't say no.
How about something
that actually contributed
to this town?
Like my tablet.
( all arguing )
It would appear we are going
to need a larger capsule.
As long as there's room
for this.
My scoop claw.
Put that away, Blades.
We're not part
of this community.
Why would you say that,
Heatwave?
Because despite everything
we've done for this town,
they still just see us
as rescue equipment.
But you keep saving
everyone anyway.
Griffin Rock obviously
means something to you guys,
so that makes you
a part of it.
It makes us part
of this family.
That's all.
( indistinct arguing )
Sir, the crowd
will not disperse.
Shall I break out
the riot gear?
Oh, they'll leave
soon enough.
Storm's on its way.
I hope Woodrow
doesn't get caught in it.
I was unaware that your brother
was planning a visit.
You know him. He never misses
a chance to dig up something.
He's coming over
on his boat.
I can't wait to see what he
wants to put in the new capsule.
Blades?
( sighs ):
That's not what I meant
by "put it away."
Fine.
But then this doesn't get
to go in there, either.
FRANKIE:
Commencing test two.
Sonic bombardment
of Reactaline.
Intriguing.
The same results as with
the electricity in test one.
The Reactaline is so conductive,
it takes on the properties
of whatever energy source
it's exposed to.
Though the effect
does appear temporary.
Then that proves
your hypothesis, right, Daddy?
One more test before we
can confirm, my little Edison.
Commencing test three:
magnetizing the Reactaline.
( device beeps )
It appears as if it's being
magnetically drawn
in that direction.
But not toward metal.
( rumbling )
Oh, dear.
That direction is downtown.
HEATWAVE:
Rescue Bots, roll to the rescue.
( sirens blare )
Power up and energize.
Perhaps someone
should hold on to me.
( all grunt )
(  suspenseful theme playing  )
I'm on it! Literally.
Whoa!
BLADES:
Uh-oh.
Please do not touch
the displays.
I wonder what Doc did
to this Reactaline.
FRANKIE:
We just magnetized it.
DOC GREENE:
And that caused it
to be pulled toward
another object
with the same properties:
this statue.
Like a giant
super magnet.
PRESIDENT ARTHUR:
Thank you for visiting.
Please exit
through the gift shop.
( thunder crashes )
Storm's getting worse.
I hope Uncle Woodrow's okay.
(  dramatic theme playing  )
( loud snoring )
( snorts )
Throw one more water balloon,
Charlie, and I'm telling you...
Huh?
When did it get stormy?
Mayday! This is the S.S.
Close Encounter  to...
( screams )
( sputters and coughs )
Oh!
( sputtering and coughing )
What...
Thank you.
Who...?
Hello?
Who just rescued me?
I told you we should have
just put him into a life raft.
There wasn't time.
Then what'll we do
when he doesn't find
any humans onboard?
Well, considering most humans
aren't the brightest points
on the sextant,
I'll handle it.
Shh, here he comes.
WOODROW:
Hello?
( in robotic voice ):
You have been rescued by an
unmanned automated vessel.
Amazing!
I've never heard
of such a thing.
Except for...
Except for Autobots.
Hey, you're from Cybertron,
aren't you?
Uh...no.
What do you know
about Autobots?
I'm Woodrow. Brother to Chief
Charlie Burns of Griffin Rock.
( laughs ):
I'm family.
The Woodrow Burns?
The one Optimus talks about.
The underground expedition.
Optimus and I are like this.
This one's me.
I'm Salvage.
This is Blurr.
And that's High Tide.
It's him we're riding on.
Well, his vessel.
Good thing we came by
when we did, or you'd a been--
Really late
to Griffin Rock.
Oh, that's where
we're headed.
Optimus asked us to observe
the time capsule ceremony
as a lesson in Earth culture.
( laughs ):
And when Optimus "asks,"
we go.
( thunder crashes )
Well, this storm,
I just hope Charlie doesn't have
to cancel the whole shebang.
With a storm
threatening,
the unearthing
of the 75-year-old time capsule
is about to begin.
( thunder crashes )
Aah!
( chuckles )
Unfortunately we're a little
rushed due to inclement weather.
So without further ado,
Rescue Robots, begin.
( fanfare plays )
Did you finish
the ring, Daddy?
I intend to pop the question
as soon as the ceremony is over.
( applause )
And now, let's see
what the townsfolk of yesteryear
wanted us to learn
about them.
Chief, if you'd be so kind.
( all gasp )
Uh, wha-- What?
That's it?
A crystal?
( townsfolk chattering angrily )
Maybe this note
will explain.
"Dear future citizens
of Griffin Rock.
I'm Dr. Elma Hendrickson..."
DR. HENDRICKSON:
I am sorry for removing
the items
from the time capsule.
But this quantum crystal
is an important discovery,
and too dangerous to fall
into the wrong hands.
I trust the scientists
of tomorrow
will be much more responsible
with it.
Oh, of all the...
Chief Burns,
let's hope the artifacts
you choose for the new capsule
aren't as disappointing
as this!
Scoop claw. Just saying.
"Wrong hands?" What was she
afraid of, do you think?
It only took a tiny piece
of a quantum crystal
to power Daddy's
teleportation device.
Remember how that
turned out?
The MHQ zapping all over town,
with us in it.
If this crystal, that big,
has the same properties,
no telling
what it's capable of.
What--? Should we evacuate
the island?
No need for that yet.
But I suggest
clearing the area
until we know
what we're dealing with.
Uh, go home, folks.
Nothing more to see here.
And just to be
on the safe side,
I'll be on my yacht.
What does it all mean?
I'm out of here.
( all scream )
Please, everyone,
there's no need to--
( sighs )
Ah, the old hometown.
( laugh )
It'll be good to be back.
Yeah. Can't say
that I miss it.
Though sometimes
I wonder how Cody is.
( thunder crashes )
Well, looks like we haven't seen
the worst of this storm.
(  dramatic theme playing  )
The waves emitted by this
crystal are off the charts.
Dr. Hendrickson
was right.
This is quite
a powerful artifact.
We have to get it inside.
If it's struck by lightning,
it could trigger
a teleportation.
For now, let's just put it
back where we found it.
Bots?
Aah!
( gasps )
Reactaline!
Oh, dear.
(  dramatic theme playing  )
Where did Griffin Rock go?
WOMAN 1: Help!
MAN 1: Help!
WOMAN 1: Help! Over here!
MAN 1: I can't swim! Help!
WOMAN 2:
Help me!
Somebody rescue me!
( sputters )
Rescue us first!
I'm the mayor!
The mayor of what?
I'll call Optimus.
Seriously, someone wanna tell me
where Griffin Rock went?
We'll worry
about that later.
Right now,
people need our help.
( rumbling )
Daddy!
I'm here, Francine.
Create a windbreak
around them.
DANI:
Where'd this blizzard come from?
More like where did we go?
Magnetic North.
I don't know how,
but Griffin Rock has been
teleported to the Arctic.
The-- The properties
of the quantum crystal
were absorbed into the veins
of Reactaline underground.
Basically making the whole
island a teleportation device.
Okay, but can't we, like,
reverse it and go home?
That crystal is history.
This is not acceptable.
Ice makes flying
almost impossible.
Then again, I could learn
to love it here.
We need to get people
off this island, fast.
To where?
I don't believe there is
an evacuation plan in place
that covers this situation.
And for that, I apologize.
We have to do something.
Nobody can survive
these temperatures for long.
We could raise the dome.
That would keep
the blizzard out.
Is there enough power
for that, Doc?
For a while, at least.
But first the four
dome generators
will have to be deiced.
Sounds like a plan to me.
Rescue Bots,
roll to the rescue.
(  dramatic theme playing  )
(  rock theme playing  )
( all gasp )
( both yelp )
WOMAN:
Oh! Oh, my goodness!
Aah!
Aah! My yacht!
( groans )
Oh, now I have
nothing left.
( pants )
( barks )
( wind gusting )
( whines )
( computers beep )
DOC GREENE:
The Bots made it.
Let's just hope
their deicing foam
can free up
those generators.
ALL:
Power up and energize!
Dad, what'll we do
after the dome's up?
We're still stranded.
We'll figure it out.
One thing stays the same
through every generation
on Griffin Rock.
We're resourceful.
The generators
are all ready.
Fingers crossed.
( computers beep )
(  dramatic theme playing  )
( sighs ):
Finally.
I thought I'd never
stop shivering.
Before the snow melts,
shall we enjoy
some winter activities?
A snowball fight, perhaps?
I'll take that as a yes.
Ah, no telling how long
this dome will stay up.
( sighs ):
I know this is
a temporary fix,
but sometimes you just
gotta take a breath
and enjoy what's good.
( sighs ):
You're right.
That's long enough.
Let's go.
Uh, Daddy, what's that mean?
It means the dome is depleting
our energy supplies
faster than
I anticipated.
And with the blizzard outside
still raging,
we need a Plan B.
Immediately.
( wind gusting )
(  dramatic theme playing  )